RSS Recipe Next Steps (#3285)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/rss.mdx

  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

:::tip
Ensure you've [configured a `site`](/en/reference/configuration-reference/#site) in your project's `astro.config`. This will be used to generate links to your RSS articles.
:::

> Now generate your first RSS feed! Create a file with the extension `.xml.js`. This will be used as the output URL. This example uses `rss.xml.js` and the output URL will be `rss.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a file in `src/pages/` with a name of your choice and the extension `.xml.js` to be used as the output URL for your feed. Some common RSS feed URL names are `feed.xml` or `rss.xml`.

The example file below `src/pages/rss.xml.js` will create an RSS feed at `site/rss.xml`.
```

## Generating `items`

The `items` field accepts a list of RSS feed objects, each with a `link`, `title`, `pubDate`, and optional `description`, `content`, and `customData` fields. You can generate this array from a content collection or by using [glob imports.](/en/guides/imports/#astroglob)

### Using content collections

> To create an RSS feed of pages managed in [content collections](/en/guides/content-collections/), use the `getCollection()` function to retrieve the list of your items.

Reviewer: Love these edits! :purple_heart:

## Generating `items`

> The `items` field accepts a list of RSS feed objects, each with a required `link`, `title`, and `pubDate`. Three optional values may be also be included `description` (a short excerpt), `content` (the full content of your post), and a `customData` field for including any extra data, such as other frontmatter properties from your blog posts. 

Reviewer 2: Small typo (double "be"):
```suggestion
The `items` field accepts a list of RSS feed objects, each with a required `link`, `title`, and `pubDate`. Three optional values may also be included `description` (a short excerpt), `content` (the full content of your post), and a `customData` field for including any extra data, such as other frontmatter properties from your blog posts.
```

}
```

> Configure your collection schema to enforce these expected RSS properties. Import and apply `rssSchema` to ensure that each collection entry produces a valid RSS feed item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional: replace your existing blog collection schema to enforce the expected RSS properties.

To ensure that every blog entry produces a valid RSS feed item, you can optionally import and apply `rssSchema` instead of defining each individual property of your schema.
```
I think this is key here. Someone will probably already have their blog collection schema defined, so we should be clear that this is an optional refactoring they can do so that the RSS helper actually defines the schema, instead of listing out each property using `z.` etc.

To create an RSS feed from documents in `src/pages/`, use the `pagesGlobToRssItems()` helper. This accepts an [`import.meta.glob`](https://vitejs.dev/guide/features.html#glob-import) result and outputs an array of valid RSS feed items (see [more about writing glob patterns](/en/guides/imports/#glob-patterns) for specifying which pages to include).

> :::warn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution
```
I think this is what we use!

The `content` key contains the full content of the post as HTML. This allows you to make your entire post content available to RSS feed readers.

:::tip

> A package like [`sanitize-html`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sanitize-html) will make sure that your content is properly sanitized, escaped, and encoded.

Reviewer: Again, love it!

});
```

:::tip
If you'd prefer not to create your own stylesheet, you may use a premade stylesheet such as the [Pretty Feed v3 default stylesheet.](https://github.com/genmon/aboutfeeds/blob/main/tools/pretty-feed-v3.xsl) Download the stylesheet from GitHub and save into your project's `public/` directory.
:::

## Next Steps

> After visiting your feed in the browser (your-site.com/rss.xml) and confirming that you can see data about your posts, you can now [display your feed on your website](https://medium.com/samsung-internet-dev/add-rss-feeds-to-your-website-to-keep-your-core-readers-engaged-3179dca9c91e#:~:text=com/~deno%2Drss-,Advertising%20your%20RSS%20feed,-Now%20you%20have) so that readers can subscribe to it in their own feed reader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After visiting your feed in the browser at `your-domain.com/rss.xml` and confirming that you can see data for each of your posts, you can now [promote your feed on your website](https://medium.com/samsung-internet-dev/add-rss-feeds-to-your-website-to-keep-your-core-readers-engaged-3179dca9c91e#:~:text=com/~deno%2Drss-,Advertising%20your%20RSS%20feed,-Now%20you%20have). Adding the standard RSS icon to your site lets your readers know that they can subscribe to your posts in their own feed reader.
```
